Let's look at parameterized tests.
Parameterized tests are used when you want to pass
certain data value to run in your test method,
but you don't want to create data values inside the methods.
So you want to pass them in from one location as a collection.
So let's dig right into the implementation.
I'm going to create one more test class here,
and I'm going to call that HelperParameterized.
I hope I'm spelling that right, Test.
Now, the first thing that you need to keep in mind is that in order to run this test,
which is not run like the other classes,
you need to add the annotation @RunWith,
and the value to pass here is a runner, parameterized class.
This is what will make sure that
this test class is considered to be a parameterized test class.
The next thing that I'm going to do is I'm going to create two variables here.
Let's say I call this,
I have this String input and I have a String output.
So now, I have the String input and the output.
So I'm going to create a constructor,
which accepts input and output,
and constructs an object of the class HelperParameterizedTest.
So the best way to do that or the simplest way to do
that is using the ID that you have at hand,
which could be either Eclipse or Intellij.
Just right-click on it.
In Eclipse, the command is different or the option is different.
But in Intellij, you would use Constructor,
and this is what we would use for getters and setters.
As you see, it provides you the option to have
the default equals and hashCode method as well and toStrings as well.
So this is extremely helpful for creating any default methods.
So as you see, I got the option to include all the variables,
and here I have my constructor.
I'm going to call super on this.
What I'm going to do now is I'm going to create a method,
which is going to be our initialization of the data or the dataset method.
So this is going to be a public static method,
and I'm going to call the return value for that
is Collection because this is going to be collection of dataset.
I'm going to call this initData,
short-form for initialization of data.
The next thing that I would do here is I'm going to create an array of employee names.
The reason why I made it a two-dimensional array,
this is a two-dimensional array,
is because I want to pass two things.
I want to pass an expected value and I want to pass an actual value.
So this is one record,
and I'm going to create one more record,
and let's call this Jeff.
So this is my dataset.
What I'm going to return here is this entire empName.
Now, this is an array but I need to pass a collection.
So I'm going to call arrays asList on this, and done.
So now I have a method,
which will serve as a data provider.
How does this method get identified?
For that, I would use another annotation called Parameters, simple as that.
You could just get away with this.
It seems like I already have parameters.
Well, that's fine. It just means that it goes through the exact path of
that particular class instead of just the annotation parameters.
So it doesn't really matter but in
your Intellij you might just see it like this if
you have the imports configured correctly.
So yeah, what I can do here is that I will just call to that particular class,
and here you go.
So you might also see this version or this variety in your Intellij.
This is when the imports are correctly imported.
So I'm going to write a test method to demo how the initData method that we just created,
which is a Parameters method is going to be used.
So let me start with a test method.
I'm going to call this method verify,
this is going to be a negative test, verify names.
Let's call this verify input name is
not the same as the output name.
This might seem like a very long method but this is actually pretty readable.
So in case you wanted to remove the article and make it like a shorter,
remove the unnecessary words, you could do that.
But the more readable your method is,
the better it is for anybody who reads or is looking at your test reports.
Now, I'm going to use negation,
some kind of negative tests for this particular test method.
The method that I've chosen is assertNotEquals.
So I'm just going to take an input and output, and compare them.
So as you may have guessed,
so this is my first set,
it would run sareeta against sareeta not equals.
It is equal, so this is going to fail.
The second set is sareeta not equals Jeff,
which is true, so it will pass.
So let's look at that now.
So as you see,
there is one test case.
However, it ran twice.
As you see over here,
it passed one time,
the second time but it did not pass the first time,
just as we had thought it would.
So it compared sareeta against sareeta,
did not pass, sareeta against Jeff, and it passed.
Here, it gives you an AssertionError as we had expected,
and it says, "Value should be different.
Actual, sareeta."
So that sums up the parameterized testing.